# Duck-Soccer and Deck of Cards Libraries

This folder contains the definitions for the objects used in the card game we made up last week as a class activity. The actual game, that you guys wrote, is in "cardgame.py" in the week 4 folder.

This README file will mimic the definitions you might find at python.org if you were to look up the reference page for a library. You can look at the [documentation for the *random* library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/random.html) for an example. (The 'random' library is used to work with and generate (pseudo) random numbers.)

# Duck-Soccer

## **ducksoccer** -- defines Duck and SoccerBall objects

This module contains the definition of the Duck and SoccerBall objects, which are used for the card game we created in class during week 3. 

## Duck -- a Simple  Digital Duck. That Quacks.

### ducksoccer.**Duck()**
Calling Duck() creates/returns an instance of the ducksoccer.Duck object, which can be assigned to a new variable. Duck has the following user-accessible methods and attributes:

### ducksoccer.Duck.**quack()**
The quack() method makes the duck quack. When the duck quacks, a print() function is called that prints a message to standard output. There are no arguments for this method. This method uses the Duck.*name* attribute, which can be modified through the Duck.*nametheduck()* method. There is no return from this method.

### ducksoccer.Duck.**nametheduck(newname)**
This method changes the value of the Duck.*name* attribute. The newname argument is assigned to the Duck.*name* attribute. There is no output or return.

### ducksoccer.Duck.**name**
This user accessible attribute holds the name of the Duck. It can be changed via the ### Duck.*nametheduck()* method.


## SoccerBall -- a Digital Ball. That You can Kick.

### ducksoccer.**SoccerBall()**
Calling SoccerBall() creates/returns an instance of the ducksoccer.SoccerBall object, which can be assigned to a new variable. Duck has the following user-accessible methods and attributes:

### ducksoccer.SoccerBall.**kick()**
This method "kicks" the SoccerBall. Using a random number generated by the 'random' library, there is 20% chance fo scoring a goal, and an 80% chance of missing. The random result of the kick is print to standard output (ie, the screen). There are no arguments, and there is no return.


# Deck of Cards

## **deckofcards** -- defines Card and Deck objects

This module contains the definition of the Deck and Card objects. These are used for the card game we created in class during week 3, but may be useful for later assignments and activities (hint, hint). The Deck object uses a sequence of Card objects, representing a deck of cards and the individual cards themselves.

## Card -- a Single Card


### deckofcards.**Card()**
Calling Card() creates/returns an instance of the deckofcards.Card object, which can be assigned to a new variable. The Card object is printable, and will print with a single letter value followed by the symbol of the suit. Card has the following user-accessible methods and attributes:

### deckofcards.Card.**value**
This attribute stores the face value of the Card object. This is stored as a single letter string (digit as a string for number cards, and K/Q/J/A for face cards and Ace).

### deckofcards.Card.**suit**
This attribute stores the suit name  of the Card object. The name of the suit is stored as a string.

### deckofcards.Card.**possiblesuits**
This attribute stores all the allowable suit names as a list.

### deckofcards.Card.**possiblecardvalues**
This attribute stores all the allowable card values as a list.

### deckofcards.Card.**suitsymbols**
This attribute stores the uicode characters for the suite symbols as a dictionary, using the suit names as keys. Referencing the dictionary -- deckofcards.Card.suitsymbols[suitname] -- will return the symbol of the corresponding suit.

## Deck -- a Full Deck of Card Objects

### deckofcards.**Deck()**
Calling Deck() creates/returns an instance of the deckofcards.Deck object, which can be assigned to a new variable. Deck has the following user-accessible methods and attributes:

### deckofcards.Deck.**deck**
This attribute stores the Card objects in a list, representing the cards in the deck. This list is mutable, and is modified by all of the methods in this Class. Upon creating a new instance of the class, the Deck.deck attribute is loaded with a full "deck of cards" and shuffled.

### deckofcards.Deck.**shuffledeck()**
This method randomizes the order of the Card objects in the Deck.deck list. Functionally speaking, it shuffles the Cards in the Deck. It uses the random library. This method takes no arguments and has no return.

### deckofcards.Deck.**loadnewdeck()**
This method reloads a full deck into the Deck.deck list. It does *not* randomize the order, nor does it call the Deck.shuffle() method. The cards in the deck will be ordered by Card.value and Card.suit. This method takes no arguments and has no return.

### deckofcards.Deck.**cardsleftindeck()**
This method returns an int with the number of cards left in the deck, between 0 and 52 (inclusive). This method takes no arguments.


### deckofcards.Deck.**dealcard()**
This method deals the last card in the deck. Specifically, it uses the .pop() method of the Deck.deck list, and returns a Card object. The Card object is removed from the Deck.deck list by the .pop() method. This method takes no arguments.

